---
layout: single
title:  "[코테] 리트코드 문자열 조작 937.Reorder Data in Log Files 문제"
categories: Coding
tag: [coding test, python]
use_math: true
---

## 937. Reorder Data in Log Files
### 문제 링크
<https://leetcode.com/problems/reorder-data-in-log-files/description/>

### 문제 설명
You are given an array of logs. Each log is a space-delimited string of words, where the first word is the identifier.

There are two types of logs:
- Letter-logs: All words (except the identifier) consist of lowercase English letters.
- Digit-logs: All words (except the identifier) consist of digits.

    
Reorder these logs so that:
1. The letter-logs come before all digit-logs.
2. The letter-logs are sorted lexicographically by their contents. If their contents are the same, then sort them lexicographically by their identifiers.
3. The digit-logs maintain their relative ordering.

Return the final order of the logs.

### 제한사항
- 1 <= logs.length <= 100
- 3 <= logs[i].length <= 100
- All the tokens of logs[i] are separated by a single space.
- logs[i] is guaranteed to have an identifier and at least one word after the identifier.

#### 입출력 예 #1
1. Input: logs = ["dig1 8 1 5 1","let1 art can","dig2 3 6","let2 own kit dig","let3 art zero"]
2. Output: ["let1 art can","let3 art zero","let2 own kit dig","dig1 8 1 5 1","dig2 3 6"]
3. Explanation:
The letter-log contents are all different, so their ordering is "art can", "art zero", "own kit dig".
The digit-logs have a relative order of "dig1 8 1 5 1", "dig2 3 6".

#### 입출력 예 #2 
1. Input: logs = ["a1 9 2 3 1","g1 act car","zo4 4 7","ab1 off key dog","a8 act zoo"]
2. Output: ["g1 act car","a8 act zoo","ab1 off key dog","a1 9 2 3 1","zo4 4 7"]

### 문제 풀이
1. 문자열이 숫자로만 이루어졌는지 판별하는 함수인 isdigit()을 이용해 문자 로그인지 숫자 로그인지 판별
2. 문자 로그이면 안에 내용을 비교하여 정렬하고, 같은 내용일 경우 구분자로 정렬


```python
class Solution:
    def reorderLogFiles(self, logs : List[str]) -> List[str] :
        letters, digits = [], []

        for log in logs : 
            if log.split()[1].isdigit() :
                digits.append(log)    
            else : 
                letters.append(log)
        
        letters.sort(key = lambda x : (x.split()[1:], x.split()[0]))
        
        return letters + digits
```
